# HBS - Handy Bash Scripts
A number of bash scripts to help you live a little longer ;)

These are basic timesaving scripts I use all the time and they were borne out of the need to be more efficient.

### Motivation

+ I work a lot from the command line, and many times I want to take notes. Having to decide which of the gazillion notes app out there to use is time consuming,not to talk of switching between the terminal and whatever note app I decide to use.
+ Many times, I have to create new projects from the scratch either to try out a new concept, or teach something. I often find myself creating new project directories and this can be time consuming.
+ Sometimes I just want to unwind a little after staring at the terminal for too long. I want something not so distracting, but intersting enough to help me relax.


I decided to write shell scripts to address these concerns. Also, I added some other time saving scripts.

If you are anything like me, then you might find some of these useful.

---


+ changextension
+ numguess
+ quickstart
+ note


### changextension
A script that allows you change the extensions of all files within a directory, with a particular extension.

Say you have a directory that contains 50 `.txt` files and you want to change their extensions to `.json`or something else.
I can't imagine attempting to do that manually. Save yourself the headache and use 'changextension'

+ To use, simply switch to the directory containing the files and type:

```bash
changextension <current-extension> <target-extension>
```

+ Example Usage 

```bash
changextension txt json
```


### numguess
A simple fun game in the command line where a random number is generated by the program and you are expected to guess what the number is.

You get perks for how fast you are able to guess the number ;)

+ Usage: 

```bash
numguess
```


### quickstart
A bash script that helps you quickly create standard project structures and allow you focus on development.

Supported projects are:
+ Express Js
+ Flask

*Support for more programming frameworks would be added soon*

+ Usage:

```bash
quickstart <project-stack> <project-name>
```

+ Example:

```bash
quickstart express mySuperAwesomeProject
```


### note
Who says you have to leave the convenience of your command line to take quick notes ?
You can easily take notes from the command line using this script.
+ Currently, all notes are stored to a notes.txt file in your home directory.
+ This is still a work in progress and the next update would allow you specify where notes should be stored.

+ To save a note, simply type:

```bash
note
```

+ To retrieve all your notes, type: 

```bash
note list
```


---

Feel free to contribute to this repository.
Ideas and feedback are welcome.
